[Python] Updated releases and sessions documentation (#9466)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/python/configuration/releases.mdx

---
title: Releases
sidebar_order: 40
description: "Learn how to configure your SDK to tell Sentry about your releases."
---

A `release` is a version of your code that is deployed to an <PlatformLink to="/configuration/environments/">environment</PlatformLink>. When you give Sentry information about your releases, you can:

- Determine issues and regressions introduced in a new release
- Predict which commit caused an issue and who is likely responsible
- Resolve issues by including the issue number in your commit message
- Receive email notifications when your code gets deployed

Include the `release` when you initialize the SDK. The release name cannot:

- contain newlines, tabulator characters, forward slashes(`/`) or back slashes(`\`)
- be (in their entirety) period (`.`), double period (`..`), or space ( )
- exceed 200 characters

The value can be arbitrary, but we recommend [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/), [Calendar Versioning](https://calver.org/), or the Git commit SHA.

> Releases are global per organization; prefix them with something project-specific (ex: `"myapp@1.0.0"`) for easy differentiation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Releases are global per organization; prefix them with something project-specific (such as `"myapp@1.0.0"`) for easy differentiation.
```

> The behavior of a few features depends on whether a project is using semantic or time-based versioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of a few features depends on whether a project is using semantic or time-based versioning:
```

- Regression detection

> - Filter data by `release:latest`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data filtering by `release:latest`
```

We automatically detect whether a project is using semantic or time-based versioning.

## Setting a Release

<PlatformContent includePath="set-release" notateUnsupported />

How you make the `release` available to your code is up to you. For example, you could use an environment variable that is set during the build process or during initial start-up.

> The `release` can also be set by an environment variable `SENTRY_RELEASE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `release` can also be set using the environment variable, `SENTRY_RELEASE`.
```

> If no `release` is set the Sentry SDK will try to guess it. If a Git repository is present it will take the Git SHA from the latest commit. If this did not work the SDK will check some environment variables used by hosting providers like `HEROKU_SLUG_COMMIT`, `SOURCE_VERSION`, `CODEBUILD_RESOLVED_SOURCE_VERSION`, `CIRCLE_SHA1`, `GAE_DEPLOYMENT_ID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no `release` is set, the Sentry SDK will try to guess it. If a Git repository is present, it will take the Git SHA from the latest commit. If this did not work, the SDK will check some environment variables used by hosting providers like `HEROKU_SLUG_COMMIT`, `SOURCE_VERSION`, `CODEBUILD_RESOLVED_SOURCE_VERSION`, `CIRCLE_SHA1`, and `GAE_DEPLOYMENT_ID`.
```

## Unlocking More Release Features

> We recommend that you tell Sentry about a new release before sending events with that release name, as this will unlock a few more features. Learn more in our [Releases](/product/releases/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you tell Sentry about a new release before sending events with that release name, as this will unlock a few more features like ___ and __. Learn more in our [Releases](/product/releases/) documentation.
```
would be nice to mention one or two features so this recommendation is more compelling

Author: made it more compelling!
